You mentioned your
dad gave you all those ace doubles when you were a kid. I'm a collector. I just
threw blood, sweat, and tears and finished my ace double collection. Do you
still have it? Do you still collect books and that sort of thing? No. The
practicalities of career are such that I don't collect, unfortunately, or
fortunately, much of anything now because we're in the disposable society. And
unfortunately, I've become a victim to that. But I'm just racing around so much.
The trip to England in October, I live, oh, a good 45 minute to an hour drive
from where I do most of my interviews in Hollywood and environs.
So I'm racing around too much to collect, and then I'm trying to get out every
so often, see movies, maybe review a movie now and then. that to collect means
to take up space. And I have so much space taken up with interviews that I've
done on tape, with biographies that I have to read that just, to put it
colloquially now, there ain't enough room. Yeah, I think I understand. I haven't
had to make the switch yet to throwing away my collection. I hope I don't have
to. And I'm not, I tend to, Oh If this is part of the interview, fine Yeah, sure
Is it on tape? This is on tape We can shut it off if you want No, no, this is
fine Use whatever you want In some ways, I guess I tend to be materialistic But
I look at maybe collecting Unless one does it for investment reasons As a
cumulative materialism whereby materialism, how do we put it, you buy a
television, you keep it for a year, maybe you get tired of it, you want a bigger
television, you dispose of the previous television. But when you're collecting
things, you keep what you have before and add to it. And I'm just not oriented
that way. I'm interested in cars. I've had, good heavens, 40 cars in 14 years,
but I don't have all 40 cars yet with me.
Maybe your wisdom will rub off on me. Yes, I do have all these things. You used
the word wisdom. I didn't. I think there's a certain comfort in collecting. If I
were a smoker, which I am not, let's say I smoke pipes, I would probably find a
great deal of satisfaction and using pipes that I had gotten maybe 10 years
before, and maybe I was in Paris, and I got this pipe in a special little store
just off of Chans lise, and that would bring back memories. That kind of
collecting might be nice, but I'm living new things all the time, and I don't
really have time necessarily to rehash a lot of memories, although they can be
very nice. And I have some friends, for example, So, well, and this is not,
again, a plug for the magazine, but if I were a collector, let me rephrase that.
To be a collector, I'd have to have the room for it. And some friends of mine
have taken over, as it were, valentina's old estate, Falkenslayer, it has, oh,
ten bedrooms, twelve bathrooms. It's on four and a half acres of ground, right
in the middle of Beverly Hills. I couldn't afford the taxes on the thing. but
it's such a beautiful old house, they've refurbished it. They collect, and they
also sell, antiques. That house has $1 million worth of antiques in it. And I
could see where that would be very pleasant because an antique is something that
can be shown, that adds beauty to a room, and is also a good investment. And I
think I could probably, if I had the money, which I don't tip over in that
direction, but not much else.
Okay. Back to the real world now, I guess. This may be a difficult question and
one way to answer because you are more or less out of science fiction. But I
will ask it first of all about the printed word science fiction and then I'll
ask it about the movies. But where do you see science fiction going? You were
involved in it for so many years. You went through the new wave and did a lot of
editing on the tail end of that. Where is it going now, in your opinion? Well, I
think by virtue of Spielberg and Lucas, in their areas of science fiction, their
taste being assimilated by people who see their movies and then those tastes
guide what they buy, I think it's definitely going in the more traditional, the
more space adventure, and in the case of E.T., the more poignant science
fiction. I think, for example, Edgar Pangborn, and what a wonderful writer he
was, did a classic science fiction book called Mirror for Observers, and that
has some of the most poetic, beautiful, moving, poignant science fiction writing
that I've ever read in science fiction and some of the best writing I've ever
read in any genre or even out of the genres, And I would like to think that
science fiction is definitely moving in that direction. And let's face it, Star
Wars, Empire Strikes Back, E.T., and Close Encounters, obviously not in that
order of release, have made pretty close to worldwide now, golly, nudging a
billion dollars at movie theaters. and the spin-off, the paperback books, have
earned also an incredible amount of money now. Why are people going in that
direction? They're going in that direction because they're not paying their
money to see a movie that they hope to dislike. They're paying their money to
see a movie that they hope to like. And by the way, the only reason those movies
are succeeding is not because 200 million people have seen the movies. it's
because maybe 50 million people have seen the movies, and half of those people
are seeing those movies two and three and four and sometimes seven, eight and
ten times. The movie business, a hit, a real out-of-the-ballpark home run is
based upon people going back to the theater and seeing the film again and again.
Otherwise, if you'd had only first-time, only-time viewers, E.T. would not have
grossed, according to the latest figures, over $200 million in this country
alone.
I keep using the word phase, I realize. Because you saw Star Wars, you kind of
get it out of there. It's etched in my brain. In your opinion, is the spate of
the science fiction movies, the ones that you've mentioned, is that a phase? And
5 years, 10 years from now, are we going to be going to some other genre movies
that are going to be the current craze? Or do you think this is something that
may stay with us for a while? All right. When was Star Wars first? Okay, that
was 77. All right. They asked the same question in the midst of that. And it's
been 5 years later. How much longer do we ask the same question? Next year we
have, in 1983, have Revenge of the Jedi out, the second sequel to Star Wars, the
third one in that series. And will that continue the cycle? Perhaps so. I think
you have a phase when you have movies such as Excalibur and Conan the Conqueror,
and as of the date of this interview, the forthcoming Beastmaster, you have a
phase there that seems to give the impression that it's going to be nothing more
than a phase, that a year or two it'll die out. Excalibur made a lot of money.
Conan made a lot of money initially, but after the first couple of weeks or so
and word of mouth got around about really what an atrocious picture it was, the
drop-off in business from one week to the next was like 42, even 50%, maybe as
low as 30%. So as soon as word of mouth got around, the pictures died. Now, I
see that genre of sword and sorcery and so on being a phase. But what we're
dealing with here is a brand of science fiction, an approach to science fiction,
that has actually been around 60 years for Pete's sake. Look again at Gernsback.
Look again at John W. Campbell. So if it's a phase, I think it's going to be a
pretty long-lived one. Yeah. It's a trend more than a phase. As far as I was
concerned, Star Wars, with the exception of the princess, now she wasn't a
wallflower, but otherwise it could have come straight out of the 20s or 30s.
Yeah, totally, totally. So I think we're also in the midst, I'm told, of
something of a nostalgia boom, so maybe that fits in as well. I don't know. One
thing that brought to mind when you were talking, I find it ironic that in the
written word, fantasy is outselling science fiction. There are more fantasy
titles than there are new science fiction titles. It's not in the movie field.
Exactly, it's the opposite. And the fantasy doesn't quite cut it for some
reason. Well, you know why I think, in a novel, we create the world in our minds
through the implements, as it were, of the author's words. He helps us. He gets
us started in that world, but our minds fill in the gaps. And in movies, it is
such a literal view. Our minds can't fill in any of the gaps. And the visions
that have thus far been up on the screen have been imperfect and we don't have
anything left to our imagination anymore.
Does that make sense? Yeah, I like that. If I analyze it, I think it's right.
Conan just didn't quite cut it from the fantastic part, the spirits, the thing.
I really walked out in the middle of it because what they did was some of my
prejudices are showing. It was so sexually explicit. That scene by the fireplace
where the woman turns into a witch and all. Or maybe she's a witch and I forget,
was she turned into a snake or a bird or whatever it was? I tried to forget. I
mean, the movies today feel that unless they have a sexually explicit scene,
and, you know, I can prove this, movie after movie after movie. The World
According to Garp, for example, which was a real disaster. And some others. And
yet, I remember so many people, Fred Pohl and others, telling me that to just
stick in a sex scene in a science fiction film or book just seemed so totally
out of place because for so many years, the genre didn't have any of that.
Right.
Okay. I'm about at the end of my questions that I've asked. I was going to
comment, too, you really like Edgar Paingyuil. I do, too. Spider Robinson's
editorializing a few years ago turned me on to him. I really like him, but very
few people have ever heard of him. That's interesting, yes. They've heard of
Clarke. They've heard of Asimov. They've heard of Bradbury and so on. But they
haven't heard of Edgar Pangborn. But I really, I mean, Mirror for Observer,
especially that beautiful last paragraph, it was prose poetry, for Pete's sake.
Yeah. So much of science fiction is either quirky or nuts and bolts that I just,
I respond my own personal tastes, again, are toward poetry and writing. I try to
have my own writing as poetic as possible whenever I can. It's interesting. I've
interviewed movie stars and others, and I've been interviewing them for so many
years. And I interviewed one of the kids on fame, Lee Carrere, the white kid who
has kind of the afro haircut. Nice kid. So I interviewed him, and somebody else
had interviewed him and said, Oh, he's so dull. I mean, how can you ever get an
interview out of him? So I went and interviewed. And I found him really terrific
because he's, quote, if you will, an intellectual sort of person. And I probed
that. I didn't go the fan magazine route of, well, you know, who's your
girlfriend? What's your favorite color? What did you have for breakfast? All
that nonsense, which you can find in any good biography anyway. So why waste the
person's time and your time? So what I did was I probed the mind and the heart
and the soul of the kid. If I may refer to him as a kid, he's about 22 years old
compared to 40 years old, he's a kid. It's said with respect, anyway. And I did
an article based upon the interview. Sometimes I do Q&A, which is kind of a
routine way of doing it. But if the interview is good enough, it works. But in
this case, the interview worked, but I also wanted to add some of my own insight
into it. And I ended up with a final paragraph. Let me see if I can find it.
Hold on a second.
And his PR representative found that, I hope this doesn't come off as corny. I
may check it out and not read this. I'll read it. We won't have to use it on
anything. Okay.
Oh, my goodness. I'll show you how great my filing system is. Oh, his name? Oh,
golly. Well... Oh, I did a great interview with Joan Collins, the English
actress. That was cool. Oh, I'd like to see her. She is so nice. I... Oh, here
it is. Okay. By the way, I also interviewed Rod Steiger, and he's a prince, too.
Okay. Well, corny or not, here we go. Final paragraph. My editorial comments.
When he was much younger, Lee reached out plenty of times tentatively,
investigating the corridors of his mind and wanting to communicate his findings
to his peers, only to be rebuffed repeatedly. That is no longer the case. He has
emerged from a kind of dented, twisted, battered and isolated cocoon in which he
once had been entrapped. The comparison is valid, you know. A caterpillar can
only crawl, susceptible to being stepped on by careless feet or sprayed with
poisons. But a butterfly is free. It can soar. It can reach up. One could
fantasize to the sky and beyond, even to the gates of heaven. And, you know,
we're dealing with, oh, essentially quick journalism. We're dealing with a short
article. We're not dealing with great art. but what I try to do with my articles
and the people I interview in that whole scene is not go in there and hit on the
head. Well, I think I can summarize it this way. Shirley Jones told me, after a
two-hour interview with her, that it was more like a conversation, conversation,
keyword, with a friend, second keyword, than an interrogation by a journalist.
And I don't think, just because you're doing an article on a film star that
should be kind of a seedy, opportunistic article. There should be an attempt.
Whether it succeeds or fails is almost unimportant. There should be an attempt
to do something hopefully a little bit better, hopefully a little bit more
poignant, but at least not predictable and not salacious in the sense of, say,
the National Enquirer. All right. Yeah, I imagine it's pretty hard to do. Oh, it
is. And you don't want to force it. It has to be natural. So there are some ways
that I handle articles. For example, in Strictly the Q&A format, I did an
interview of Cliff Robertson. Of course, some years ago, four or five years ago,
he was involved in the business with David Biggelman, the movie tycoon, and the
forgery thing and so forth. I did that strictly as Q&A because there what people
were interested in reading about is what Cliff went through, not what I might be
able to interpolate into it. So it was Strictly Q&A. Are the stars... All I've
ever interviewed is science fiction writers. Generally, they're cerebral...
Science fiction writers? Yes. Generally, they are pretty well spoken, although
not all of them. They may not have great voices or anything, but they can
express their ideas well. Are the stars as bright a lot, or are some of them
kind of dumb? I get the impression that there are some of them... Well, I just
don't understand the artistic talent, really that sort of thing. So I probably
have a bad opinion of them, but they don't seem too bright a lot for the most
part. What is the, what are we actually saying? There is something endemic to
acting that draws stupid people? Or that I'm very prejudiced. I think that's
probably what it is. That is my question. Is that what we are saying? If we are
not saying that, then the answer would be that there are no more stupid people
or empty or superficial people in this business than there are in any other.
What happens is, let's put it this way, and I think, and I may suspiciously come
close to patting myself on the back for a moment, is that the average
journalist, and there are exceptions, golly, a number of exceptions, But the
average journalist will consider an interview with a star strictly as a job to
be done in the course of business, as in doing a newspaper. And they, no insult
or sarcasm intended, they will not have an opinion of a star prior to the
interview, and I'll let that guide them during the interview any more
interesting than the one you have. They will think as you do, as you surmise
that a star may be dumber than the rest of us, so they ask dumb questions, and
the star will respond maybe dumbly. What I try to do is not ask questions, even
at all, although I ask questions, because if you simply ask questions, you are
conducting an interview. What I am doing when I interview a star is to engage in
a conversation. Let me try this on you. Try my little pet theory this occurred
to me. Generally, the people I associate with, the people I interview, I guess
are left hemisphere people. That sort of thing. Whereas the artistic talent is
generally associated with the right hemisphere and more with creativity and that
sort of thing. Maybe that's where my problem is. Who are you saying is artistic
and who is not artistic? Are you saying that science fiction writers are
artistic or that Hollywood stars are artistic? Science fiction writers are
creative, artistic out of the technical, practical side of their head and movie
stars are probably more creative out of the artistic side of their head. I'm not
a psychologist. That's my layman's guess.
Well, let me give you, I was just looking through something here while you were
talking, paying attention to what you said, but, again, this is not great art,
but here's something that Rod Steiger said. Going back to what I said before, he
continued interrupting his own silence, my thoughts, quote, pain has been my
teacher, but it is also a teacher that must be understood. Life is not a gift.
Life is not a joy. It is a battle when it lacks compassion. It is an adventurous
conflict when it has compassion. When you realize that there has to be a certain
amount of pain in the life you're leading, and you accept this, and when you
accept it with intelligence and understand that every other human being has the
same or similar burdens, then the poetic quality that makes life sore can come
into being. Stiger stood stretching his legs. He looked outside at the waves
that were breaking into shore a few hundred feet from his Malibu house. Then he
turned and sat down again, his eyes in tint. I mean, I say to myself, about
myself, Good Lord, look at this curious piece called man. Man who knows that
it's going to be a pain in the ass day, but somehow will get through it and
somehow will survive. I'm amazed how many of us insist upon survival on
stumbling forward. I mean just insist upon this. And then magically, wondrously,
our fears enable us to discover beauty in our existence. Yes, our fears fuel
beauty, and that can be a desire to survive at more than just an animalistic
level, to survive with courage, with a measure of purpose. That is beauty
indeed. Now, that's not cheap interview material. That's not my favorite color
is red. I had two eggs for breakfast. Or, well, I'm sleeping with so-and-so, or
whatever. It's not great art. It can't be considered great writing or maybe even
great interviewing, but I think it's a cut above the National Enquirer. Well, it
obviously comes from his heart. Yes. And yeah, I like that. As the engineer
said, there are some exceptions. And I told him, you speak extemporaneously, as
I hoped to write, after three drafts.
Yeah, I can believe it after what we just heard. Yep. And then there are other
people, there are the giddy, superficial, quote, starlet types. But I got so
mad. Well, only insane people get mad. I got so angry at a writer who wanted to
write for my magazine. And I won't name him for obvious reasons. A friend of
mine, and I used the word friend in this case in quotes, he's more than an
acquaintance, but not an intimate friend, but I used the friend in quotes. Okay.
A friend of mine is Scott Baio, who was on the Happy Days series for some years
and then is now spun off into a separate series, which he stars in, called Junie
Los Chachis. He's gotten a lot of play as a teen idol type, but I know him and I
know his father, Mario, and the guy's a good kid. He's got a lot of talent as an
actor, maybe a little less talent as a singer, but that's developing, too, and a
good individual, an interesting person to interview. and I just plain like him
so there was one writer who had been recommended to me I called him interested
in having him write for me because he said that he was going to interview Scott
Baio and I've interviewed Scott enough that sometimes you want to hold off for a
bit and get a new perspective and maybe have somebody else do it so I said well
yeah fine I know him if you have any trouble getting in touch with him let me
know but yeah why don't you consider writing a story or doing an interview and
writing a story on Scott And he said, yeah. He said, this guy who is a teen idol
who is capitalizing on his teen idol success to cut a record or two. He's really
trying to rip off his fans. And I said, hold it, wait a minute. How do you know?
He says, well, that's what I think. I said, all right, what do you base that
upon? Have you ever interviewed him before? And he said, no. I said, how much
have you studied what's inside his mind? He said, I really haven't done that. I
read an article or two. I said, was that subject ever discussed? He said, no. I
said, so you mean to tell me you're going into an interview with somebody with
that kind of mindset at the beginning, and that's going to guide every one of
your questions? I said, talk about prejudicing your case, or his case, or
whatever. I said, I think that's scandalous. He will not write for us. He said,
well, do you want to publish tabloid then? And I said, all right. It is just as
dishonest. Well, let me rephrase it. It is dishonest to go into an interview
with that perspective in mind, based upon nothing but a kind of superficial
impression. Any interview can be twisted and shaped according to virtually any
point of view. If you want to do it that way, it's not hard. But are you
interested in doing an interview according to a preconception of yours, or are
you interested in finding the truth? Because if you go into it with that hard
-nosed an attitude, you'll disregard the truth and have that angle become a kind
of self-fulfilling prophecy. So that writer will never write for me. Very
interesting. Let me... By the way, is it possible, if I may... I'd love to get,
if it's not too bloody expensive for you, a copy of the whole interview and also
a copy of the edited-down one. Is that possible? Not for approval, I hasten it.
No, no, that's very possible. It takes us, what, three minutes to make a copy?
Oh, good. Okay. Let me get your address. I think you gave it to me in Dallas,
but I better get it. Fine. 29438 promontory that's P-R-O-M-O-N-T O-R-Y place
it's Agora A-G-O-U-R-A California 9-1-3-0-1 9-1-3-0-1 Right Okay, fantastic Oh
yeah, we'll get you a copy of both versions Yeah, no problem Tell you what we'll
get you the original real quick the edited version. No rush, Kevin. Let me ask
you, you had mentioned a little bit when I talked to you in Dallas that you know
some people and that sort of thing. We have some people in our radio show that
are really interested in the movies and that aspect, and we... Now, how do you
mean the movies and the episodes? Okay, the science fiction movies, you know,
people who produce them, that sort of thing. And you gave us the name of Glen
Campbell with Disney Studios before. Yeah. Would it be possible for us to talk
to you every once in a while and just see if you know somebody that's involved
with this movie or that movie. Oh, absolutely. Call me anytime, and if I don't
know, I can suggest somebody who doesn't know, and if I don't even know that,
I'll tell you. Great. Okay, that's what we need. We sure appreciate getting the
chance to talk to you. Does this make any sense, this interview? Yes. I'm so
used to doing my own that I'm not sure how this turns out from your point. Oh, I
think it turned out great. Of course, for the radio show, we will concentrate
more on the laser books and the editing, that sort of thing. But it's just
interesting to get into somebody else's mindset, and it's very good for me,
especially to talk to another interviewer, one that's got a lot more experience.
How do I come off, frankly, if you were putting on the whole thing, which you're
not. We know that because there's not enough time. But if you were broadcasting
the whole thing, edited to eliminate the hems and the haws and so on, how would
I come off? You'd come off as positive, confident, very excruciatingly honest,
very bright, and humorous. Is this part on tape, too? This is on tape. Here's
that part. I like that. Okay. Next book you write. My parents, who have had some
doubts sometimes. It's a part of that. I talked to your dad one night. I had a
good conversation with him. Yeah, he's good. They're terrific people. They live
with you? Well, yeah, they do. I was going to rephrase that somewhat self
-defensively, but you put it properly. Well, great. That's somebody who watches
the house when you're in England and all those other places. Oh, no. No,
actually, oh, you might be interested to know that I'm, have you seen the
preview to Beastmaster? Yes, on the tube. Not in a movie, but on the tube. Well,
the one I saw which was actually, the preview was better than the whole movie,
World According to Garth, which is one of the world's worst. The preview has got
to be one of the most energetic, interesting, exciting, enticing previews that
I've ever seen in 30 years of movie going. I mean, the picture may be a total
disaster, but that preview is classical in that it achieves the result of giving
a non-stop action-filled impression to the viewer. The engineer said, do you
remember the preview for Sword and Sorcerer? Sword and the Sorcerer. The Sword
and the Sorcerer. The second one who was made... Apparently I didn't see it, but
apparently the preview was wonderful and the movie was less than wonderful. Do
you agree, David? It was far less than wonderful. And on the other hand, there
will be previews of pictures that aren't so good and the picture turns out to be
pretty good. Yeah, as a matter of fact. Let's see. What did I see? No, that was
my wife. An officer and a gentleman. I didn't think it looked good in the
previews and she said it wasn't any good as a movie. What can I see? I'll tell
you one picture that looked wonderful in the previews and oh, it's an
atrociously dull film. A French lieutenant's woman. It never made it to the
sticks out here. It did? No. I read the book. I love the book but I never get to
see the movie. Hey, we don't want to continue to run up your bill. I can talk
for another hour if you want. I think that would be pointless from your point of
view. So I look forward to getting this. I'm rather curious to see how illogical
or whatever I turn out to be. Great. Well, thanks for being our guinea pig then.
And we've really enjoyed talking to you. When will this be on the air? This fall
sometime. Good. Yeah, these are our fall programs. And if you want to call me
back and add to it, or if there are other celebrities,
that you would like me to help you get in touch with you know within the right
perspective and all just just call there's no problem great we sure appreciate
it thanks bill thank you roger take care now bye